README.md, before:

# Magic Square of Squares
Algorithm to search magic squares of squares

## History
In 1770 Leonhard Euler was the first to construct 4×4 magic squares of squares, as mentioned above. But nobody has yet succeeded in building a 3×3 magic square of squares or proving that it is impossible. Edouard Lucas worked on the subject in 1876. Then, in 1996, Martin Gardner offered $100 to the first person who could build one. Since this problem — despite its very simple appearance — is incredibly difficult to solve with nine distinct squared integer, there is an ongoing challenge online to find a magic square with 7, 8, or 9 square numbers. There is only one solution found for 7.

## The method
To solve this problem I created a search algorithm which is trying to identify sequences of 7 or more squares. To find such square I attempt to identify square numbers in groups of two or three, where each of the two or three must have the same distance. For example, i fix a *n* and the algorithm will print all the groups of two or three which have a different of *n* between the members. After we select those groups that have at least one group of three and two groups of two, we analyze them to see if it can be composed in a magic square.
To be composed in a magic square, we compare the distance of the last element of every group. Taken three groups (of which one has three members), the last element of each group must be either:
- equally spaced or
- equally spaced - distance of exactly *n*.
We check then for these conditions and if one is qualified with such condition we print *** to screen near the number.

## Running the program
To run the program you should have docker installed, as the programs runs in an image. No other installation is required.
To run the program more easily also having `make` is preferrable.

With both of them installed, you can use:

```
make docker   # create image
make          # create executable inside docker container
make run           # run the executable inside the container
```
You can also run the following command to open the bash inside the container:
```
make exec
```

Otherwise, you can use simply docker in the more traditional way using the Dockerfile provided, or just compile the `squares.cpp` file on your machine and executing it.

If you use the code and find such magic square, you can keep the win but please refer me as contributor! Thanks.

Commit message:

minor improvements to the multithreading control, adds cli args

README.md, after:

# Magic Square of Squares
Algorithm to search magic squares of squares

## History
In 1770 Leonhard Euler was the first to construct 4×4 magic squares of squares, as mentioned above. But nobody has yet succeeded in building a 3×3 magic square of squares or proving that it is impossible. Edouard Lucas worked on the subject in 1876. Then, in 1996, Martin Gardner offered $100 to the first person who could build one. Since this problem — despite its very simple appearance — is incredibly difficult to solve with nine distinct squared integer, there is an ongoing challenge online to find a magic square with 7, 8, or 9 square numbers. There is only one solution found for 7.

## The method
To solve this problem I created a search algorithm which is trying to identify sequences of 7 or more squares. To find such square I attempt to identify square numbers in groups of two or three, where each of the two or three must have the same distance. For example, i fix a *n* and the algorithm will print all the groups of two or three which have a different of *n* between the members. After we select those groups that have at least one group of three and two groups of two, we analyze them to see if it can be composed in a magic square.
To be composed in a magic square, we compare the distance of the last element of every group. Taken three groups (of which one has three members), the last element of each group must be either:
- equally spaced or
- equally spaced - distance of exactly *n*.
We check then for these conditions and if one is qualified with such condition we print *** to screen near the number.

## Building the program
You can use the Makefile to easily build the code
```
make build 
```

## Running the program
To run the program you should have docker installed, as the programs runs in an image. No other installation is required.
To run the program more easily also having `make` is preferrable.

With both of them installed, you can use:

```
make docker   # create image
make build    # create executable inside docker container
make run      # run the executable inside the container
```
You can also run the following command to open the bash inside the container:
```
make exec
```

### Options
The algorithm runs by default in multithreading, you can select the number of threads to use
by setting THREADS
```
make run THREADS="4"
```

Otherwise, you can use simply docker in the more traditional way using the Dockerfile provided, or just compile the `squares.cpp` file on your machine and executing it.

If you use the code and find such magic square, you can keep the win but please refer me as contributor! Thanks.
